---

title: "PACE Turf updates in 2022"
subtitle: ""
summary: ""
authors: [admin]
tags: 
- turf info
categories: []
date: 2022-12-09T12:27:18-08:00
lastmod: 2022-12-09T12:27:18-08:00
featured: false
draft: false

image:
  caption: ""
  focal_point: ""
  preview_only: true

projects: []
---

I've been doing some of the updates since spring, and all of them since mid-summer, and I list---below---all the 125 [PACE Turf updates](https://www.paceturf.org/tour/paceturf) so far this year to show you the range of material covered. 

{{< figure src="featured.jpg" >}}

If you are already a [PACE Turf subscriber](https://www.paceturf.org/members/signup), you know about all the information available---the weather data, the climate analyses, the references, clubhouse editions, and the updates. 

In 2022 there are topics ranging from algae to zoysia. And that's just in the updates section. If you are not yet a subscriber, I encourage you to sign up to get access to this information.

---

### [Photo of the week: soil P levels under good turf and under poor turf](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#photo-of-the-week-soil-p-levels-under-good-turf-and-under-poor-turf .western}

Friday, December 09, 2022

A golf course superintendent noticed that the putting greens had some
turf that was performing well,\...

### [Another OM246 annual review](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#another-om246-annual-review .western}

Friday, December 09, 2022

For a few years now, Chris Tritabaugh and I have been having a call in
the autumn to review the OM24\...

### [A resource on pesticide resistance](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#a-resource-on-pesticide-resistance .western}

Wednesday, November 30, 2022

In a research article published by Elderfield et. al., a new clue to
effective management of resista\...

### [Low fungicide rates and resistance](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#low-fungicide-rates-and-resistance .western}

Wednesday, November 30, 2022

In a publication by Amaradasa and Everhart (Effects of sublethal
fungicides on mutation rates and ge\...

### [Video: the Tour de Fungus](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#video-the-tour-de-fungus .western}

Wednesday, November 23, 2022

Every November, an \"experience group\" of greenkeepers go on the Tour
de Fungus near Copenhagen, Denm\...

### [Video: Microdochium patch (snow mold) diagnosis](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#video-microdochium-patch-snow-mold-diagnosis .western}

Tuesday, November 22, 2022

Microdochium patch, caused by Microdochium nivale, is a common fall
through spring disease in many a\...

### [The growth ratio and turfgrass performance](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#the-growth-ratio-and-turfgrass-performance .western}

Sunday, November 20, 2022

Jason Haines came up with what he called the \"turfgrass speedo\" a few
years ago. He also calls this \...

### [GP and clipping volume in action](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#gp-and-clipping-volume-in-action .western}

Saturday, November 19, 2022

Growth potential (GP) and clipping yield are being used by more
turfgrass managers around the world \...

### [Video: aeration (avoiding the polka dot effect)](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#video-aeration-avoiding-the-polka-dot-effect .western}

Friday, November 11, 2022

Watch the video, \"Leach Before Aeration\", here. Seeing spots? If you
forgot to leach before aerific\...

### [Quick access to frequently asked turf management questions](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#quick-access-to-frequently-asked-turf-management-questions .western}

Friday, November 11, 2022

Quick --- what\'s the best place to send a sample for a disease
diagnosis? Where\'s guidan\...

### [How to calculate leaching volumes for salinity management on greens](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#how-to-calculate-leaching-volumes-for-salinity-management-on-greens .western}

Thursday, November 10, 2022

Turf is at the greatest risk from salinity damage during hot and dry
periods when salts from irrigat\...

### [Three frost resources](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#three-frost-resources .western}

Saturday, November 05, 2022

Bill Kreuser wrote an article on the Greenkeeper Blog titled Frustrating
frost formation. This is a \...

### [Phosphites and microdochium patch](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#phosphites-and-microdochium-patch .western}

Saturday, November 05, 2022

Phosphite-based fungicides and fertilizers are known to suppress
microdochium patch in additon to ot\...

### [Videos on dealing with grain](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#videos-on-dealing-with-grain .western}

Friday, November 04, 2022

Cup changing methods and other factors can sometimes result in
unexpected turf grain problems. These\...

### [Turfgrass GP and overseed timing](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#turfgrass-gp-and-overseed-timing .western}

Sunday, October 30, 2022

Micah and Larry recorded an ATC Doublecut episode (watch or listen) to
discuss the delta growth pote\...

### [Do you have red leaf spot?](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#do-you-have-red-leaf-spot .western}

Saturday, October 29, 2022

According to Dr. Richard Buckley the Director of the Plant Diagnostic
Lab at New Jersey\'s Rutger\...

### [Crazy patterns in bermuda, kikuyugrass, and zoysia](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#crazy-patterns-in-bermuda-kikuyugrass-and-zoysia .western}

Friday, October 28, 2022

This interesting photo illustrates the deposition of frost on the
foilage of zoysiagr\...

### [Preventive practices for fall](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#preventive-practices-for-fall .western}

Tuesday, October 18, 2022

As you plan management activities such as aeration, topdressing and
leaching for this fall, keep in \...

### [More frost damage](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#more-frost-damage .western}

Tuesday, October 18, 2022

There is no one-size-fits-all way to determine if your turf is going to
suffer traffic damage when t\...

### [You say phosphite, I say phosphate...does it matter?](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#you-say-phosphite-i-say-phosphatedoes-it-matter .western}

Tuesday, October 18, 2022

Yes, it most certainly does matter. Products based on phosphite (also
known as phosphonate or phosph\...

### [Black layer prevention: an important fall management practice](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#black-layer-prevention-an-important-fall-management-practice .western}

Sunday, October 16, 2022

In a GCSAA Webinar titled \"Redox Potential and the Black Layer\", Dr.
Lee Berndt reviewed the cause o\...

### [Five things to look for on a soil test chart](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#five-things-to-look-for-on-a-soil-test-chart .western}

Saturday, October 15, 2022

Here are five things that I like to see when I look at soil test
results. This annotated chart in th\...

### [Winter time brown patch threat](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#winter-time-brown-patch-threat .western}

Thursday, October 13, 2022

Winter hasn\'t arrived yet, but be prepared for diseases that are
historically active at your sit\...

### [Four ways to determine a sand topdressing requirement](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#four-ways-to-determine-a-sand-topdressing-requirement .western}

Sunday, October 09, 2022

Here are four ways to figure out approximately how much sand should be
applied as topdressing to gol\...

### [P fertilizer recommendations: there's a big difference between methods](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#p-fertilizer-recommendations-theres-a-big-difference-between-methods .western}

Friday, October 07, 2022

There are four steps to a soil test. First is sampling, then laboratory
analysis, then interpretatio\...

### [MLSN Newsletter](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#mlsn-newsletter .western}

Friday, October 07, 2022

If you are now using the MLSN (Miminum Levels for Sustainable Nutrition)
soil guidelines, plan on us\...

### [Soil test conversions lb/acre to ppm](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#soil-test-conversions-lbacre-to-ppm .western}

Wednesday, September 28, 2022

We had a great question this week that is worth sharing. \"MLSN
guidelines are reported in ppm (part\...

### [Photo of the week: Pythium and overseeding](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#photo-of-the-week-pythium-and-overseeding .western}

Wednesday, September 28, 2022

Fall is overseeding time, and that means that Fall is also Pythium time.
This photo is from La Quint\...

### [Fall prevention of spring dead spot](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#fall-prevention-of-spring-dead-spot .western}

Wednesday, September 28, 2022

Spring dead spot is a difficult disease to manage. The reason is that
the pathogen (Ophiosphaerella,\...

### [Fall management guidance](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#fall-management-guidance .western}

Friday, September 23, 2022

Fall finally arrived in the Northern Hemisphere on September 23, 2022,
and with it, the end of the m\...

### [Leaf tip burn after a typhoon](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#leaf-tip-burn-after-a-typhoon .western}

Friday, September 23, 2022

There must have been a lot of salt in the air when a typhoon passed over
Itoshima in western Japan. \...

### [How fast is foliar-applied nitrogen absorbed?](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#how-fast-is-foliar-applied-nitrogen-absorbed .western}

Wednesday, September 21, 2022

Nitrogen is applied as a foliar treatment on many putting greens, but
just how efficiently, and just\...

### [Overseeding Guidelines](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#overseeding-guidelines .western}

Friday, September 16, 2022

In transition environments, fall overseeding and spring transition are
always difficult times. If th\...

### [Dried soil is a time capsule](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#dried-soil-is-a-time-capsule .western}

Friday, September 16, 2022

I recommend air drying soils. This creates a soil that is frozen in
time. If soils are not dried, or\...

### [Air dry soil samples for more accurate results](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#air-dry-soil-samples-for-more-accurate-results .western}

Wednesday, September 14, 2022

When you collect a soil sample, do you dry it before sending it to the
lab? If you do, that\'s th\...

### [Winter Turf project](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#winter-turf-project .western}

Friday, September 09, 2022

The Winter Turf Project is going into its second season. I\'d heard
about this but didn\'t rea\...

### [Saturated paste extracts, and why we rarely use them](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#saturated-paste-extracts-and-why-we-rarely-use-them .western}

Thursday, September 08, 2022

We frequently get questions about the use of saturated paste extract
analytical tests (also sometime\...

### [Video: Algae, blue green bacteria, cyanobacteria and yellow spot](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#video-algae-blue-green-bacteria-cyanobacteria-and-yellow-spot .western}

Saturday, September 03, 2022

\"Algae disorders of turfgrass\" is a general term that describes a wide
range of symptoms from yellow\...

### [Why poa is the 1st to fail in the heat](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#why-poa-is-the-1st-to-fail-in-the-heat .western}

Friday, September 02, 2022

Mixed stands of poa and ryegrass are common in fairways and roughs. Also
common, quite unfortunately\...

### [Tools for measuring putting green performance](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#tools-for-measuring-putting-green-performance .western}

Sunday, August 28, 2022

I (Micah) made this short video, only 1 minute in duration. showing the
tools I use to measure surfa\...

### [Phosphorus reference guide](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#phosphorus-reference-guide .western}

Saturday, August 27, 2022

This one page soil phosphorus fact sheet has information about P
deficiencies, different soil test e\...

### [Mehlich 3 or Olsen extractants for P at soil pH above 7?](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#mehlich-3-or-olsen-extractants-for-p-at-soil-ph-above-7 .western}

Saturday, August 20, 2022

Questions sometime come up about specific extraction methods for soil
phosphorus (P). In general, th\...

### [MLSN as a modern method for turfgrass soil test interpretation](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#mlsn-as-a-modern-method-for-turfgrass-soil-test-interpretation .western}

Saturday, August 20, 2022

I (Micah) led a one hour seminar about MLSN at the Golf Matters New
Zealand Conference. I\'ve rec\...

### [Bob Raley on his bentgrass management strategy](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#bob-raley-on-his-bentgrass-management-strategy .western}

Sunday, August 14, 2022

Bob Raley\'s M.S. project at Penn State University looked at the effect
of phosphorus (P) fertili\...

### [Suppressing poa with low phosphorus](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#suppressing-poa-with-low-phosphorus .western}

Saturday, August 13, 2022

Turf managers have been reporting success with suppressing poa invasion
through the use of a low pho\...

### [Reference on heat and drought recovery](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#reference-on-heat-and-drought-recovery .western}

Saturday, August 13, 2022

Hopefully, you won\'t need our newest reference on Heat and drought
recovery this summer. But jus\...

### [Irrigation water quality seminar](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#irrigation-water-quality-seminar .western}

Saturday, August 06, 2022

The three primary (potential) problems with irrigation water quality are
salinity, sodium hazard, an\...

### [MLSN fertilizer recommendation research](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#mlsn-fertilizer-recommendation-research .western}

Saturday, August 06, 2022

Jackie Guevara completed her Masters thesis in 2021. She studied
turfgrass response and soil test le\...

### [Reference on Moss](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#reference-on-moss .western}

Tuesday, August 02, 2022

Moss infestations are a chronic problem on many cool season greens. In
this Moss Reference article, \...

### [Normal manganese (Mn) levels in turfgrass soils and in grass leaves](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#normal-manganese-mn-levels-in-turfgrass-soils-and-in-grass-leaves .western}

Sunday, July 31, 2022

There was a long discussion on Twitter about Mn. Mark Smith posted a
photo of a very green-colored g\...

### [Preventing algae and moss](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#preventing-algae-and-moss .western}

Thursday, July 28, 2022

    Moss and algae (cyanobacteria) are universal problems on greens, and
\...

### [Manganese and take-all patch](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#manganese-and-take-all-patch .western}

Tuesday, July 26, 2022

PACE Turf has adjusted guidelines for manganese availability to suppress
take-all patch caused by Ga\...

### [Four warm-season species, ranked for drought tolerance](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#four-warm-season-species-ranked-for-drought-tolerance .western}

Saturday, July 23, 2022

A new article by Katuwal et al. reports on a large project that is
designed to identify warm-season \...

### [Bottom line: Gray leaf spot management](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#bottom-line-gray-leaf-spot-management .western}

Thursday, July 21, 2022

Gray leaf spot is one of the most devastating diseases on the golf
course, taking out large swaths o\...

### [Heat kills: a helpful tool for educating golfers](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#heat-kills-a-helpful-tool-for-educating-golfers .western}

Monday, July 18, 2022

Do the golfers at your course understand just how damaging heat can be
to turf? If not, the PACE Clu\...

### [International Turfgrass Society Research Journal](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#international-turfgrass-society-research-journal .western}

Saturday, July 16, 2022

From July 10 to 15, 2022, the International Turfgrass Society held its
quadrennial conference in Cop\...

### [Resources for managing summer stress](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#resources-for-managing-summer-stress .western}

Saturday, July 16, 2022

As the weather begins to heat up, here are some useful tools,
references, educational videos and gui\...

### [What you see is not necessarily what you get: check your irrigation system output to avoid drought](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#what-you-see-is-not-necessarily-what-you-get-check-your-irrigation-system-output-to-avoid-drought .western}

Thursday, July 14, 2022

We have already talked about drought-related problems that are due to
poor irrigation distribution u\...

### [It's that time again: monitor soil salinity](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#its-that-time-again-monitor-soil-salinity .western}

Thursday, July 07, 2022

Summer is the beginning of drought season in many portions of the
world.  The exclusive relianc\...

### [Salinity measurements: deciphering milligrams, decisiemens, millimhos and more](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#salinity-measurements-deciphering-milligrams-decisiemens-millimhos-and-more .western}

Wednesday, July 06, 2022

If you are confused about the many different ways that salt
concentrations (salinity) in water and s\...

### [Introducing myself and my role with PACE Turf](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#introducing-myself-and-my-role-with-pace-turf .western}

Saturday, July 02, 2022

This week we announced my acquisition of the PACE Turf information
service. Read the full news relea\...

### [White grub prevention reminder](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#white-grub-prevention-reminder .western}

Wednesday, June 29, 2022

For all but the coldest regions, golf courses who have a history of
white grub problems should apply\...

### [Countdown: Week 1](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#countdown-week-1 .western}

Sunday, June 26, 2022

### [July 4 weekend preparations](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#july-4-weekend-preparations .western}

Saturday, June 25, 2022

The upcoming July 4 weekend is a time to relax --- but just not TOO
much. Long summer weekends a\...

### [Turfgrass podcasts](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#turfgrass-podcasts .western}

Wednesday, June 22, 2022

Larry, Wendy, and I have all been guests on various podcasts over the
years. It took me a long time \...

### [Retroactively checking the Smith-Kerns dollar spot probability](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#retroactively-checking-the-smith-kerns-dollar-spot-probability .western}

Tuesday, June 21, 2022

On the ATC website, I explained how I had seen a lot of dollar spot on
bentgrass and Poa annua in a \...

### [Summer is here. And the countdown to fall begins...](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#summer-is-here.-and-the-countdown-to-fall-begins .western}

Thursday, June 16, 2022

Summer officially begins this week in the Northern Hemisphere on June
21th. As is our tradition, we \...

### [Video: Diagnosing summer patch](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#video-diagnosing-summer-patch .western}

Thursday, June 16, 2022

In this video, we show how summer patch is diagnosed in the lab, and get
a close up look at the dama\...

### [Soil salinity and TDR](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#soil-salinity-and-tdr .western}

Thursday, June 16, 2022

Many superintendents have adopted the use of time-domain reflectrometry
(TDR e.g. Field Scout TDR350\...

### [Water conservation strategies](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#water-conservation-strategies .western}

Wednesday, June 15, 2022

The error in the PACE Turf Reference on Water Conservation Strategies
has been corrected. We ar\...

### [Heat Kills: Summertime and Turf Stress Club House Edition](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#heat-kills-summertime-and-turf-stress-club-house-edition .western}

Thursday, June 09, 2022

Once air temperatures hit the 90s, cool season turfgrasses begin their
yearly struggle with the rava\...

### [La Nina 2021-2022](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#la-nina-2021-2022 .western}

Thursday, June 09, 2022

The La Nina continues and will likely persist through the end of 2022.
The projected result is conti\...

### [Soil type Shiny app](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#soil-type-shiny-app .western}

Saturday, June 04, 2022

We\'ve recommended the Web Soil Survey in the past as a useful tool for
finding soil characterist\...

### [NC State 2022 spring dead spot control update](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#nc-state-2022-spring-dead-spot-control-update .western}

Wednesday, June 01, 2022

Dr. Jim Kerns and Lee Butler, researchers at NC State, have published
their Review of Spring Dead Sp\...

### [Timing white grub, weevil and billbug prevention](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#timing-white-grub-weevil-and-billbug-prevention .western}

Wednesday, June 01, 2022

With a host of very good products available for white grub and billbug
prevention out there, control\...

### [Ten years of MLSN: a timeline](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#ten-years-of-mlsn-a-timeline .western}

Wednesday, May 25, 2022

It was ten years ago this week, in Philadelpha at the Bouyoucos
Conference on Constructed Rootzones,\...

### [Wisconsin snow mold research 2021-2022](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#wisconsin-snow-mold-research-2021-2022 .western}

Wednesday, May 18, 2022

Dr. Paul Koch (\@uwpaul) published the 2021 - 2022 University of
Wisconsin snow mold trials. Eac\...

### [Tools for coping with warm weather](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#tools-for-coping-with-warm-weather .western}

Wednesday, May 18, 2022

The stress index readings that appear on your PACE Turf Weather Alerts
can you give you useful infor\...

### [IPM Reference on soap flushes](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#ipm-reference-on-soap-flushes .western}

Wednesday, May 18, 2022

The IPM Reference on soap flushes tells you how to implement this
simple, but powerful, tool for det\...

### [Nitrogen fertilizer rate and MLSN](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#nitrogen-fertilizer-rate-and-mlsn .western}

Sunday, May 15, 2022

The MLSN guidelines are a modern method of soil test interpretation for
turfgrass. These guidelines \...

### [MLSN for micronutrients](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#mlsn-for-micronutrients .western}

Tuesday, May 10, 2022

MLSN (Minimum Levels for Sustainable Nutrition) methods provide a
revolutionary way to interpret soi\...

### [Cultural control of summer patch](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#cultural-control-of-summer-patch .western}

Tuesday, May 10, 2022

PACE Turf promotes the use of manganese for suppression of ectotrophic
root infecting fungi suc\...

### [Black turfgrass ataenius management](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#black-turfgrass-ataenius-management .western}

Friday, May 06, 2022

Black turfgrass ataenius (Ataenius spretulus) grubs are difficult to
control because of their multip\...

### [IPM Reference on soap flushes](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#ipm-reference-on-soap-flushes-1 .western}

Friday, May 06, 2022

The IPM Reference on Soap Flushes tells you how to implement this
simple, but powerful, tool fo\...

### [Smith-Kerns dollar spot model in climate summary](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#smith-kerns-dollar-spot-model-in-climate-summary .western}

Wednesday, May 04, 2022

The Smith-Kerns (SK) dollar spot model is a decision-support tool to
help determine when to intensif\...

### [Modified Smith-Kerns Dollar Spot Model](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#modified-smith-kerns-dollar-spot-model .western}

Wednesday, May 04, 2022

The Modified Smith-Kerns model listed in the SK% column on your Weather
page and Email updates will&\...

### [Annual bluegrass weevil](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#annual-bluegrass-weevil .western}

Wednesday, April 27, 2022

It\'s that time of year again. The forsythia has been seen blooming, poa
seedheads are up in many\...

### [Annual bluegrass weevil reminder](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#annual-bluegrass-weevil-reminder .western}

Tuesday, April 26, 2022

A good article in Golf Course Management, \"A survey of annual bluegrass
weevil management\", by Drs. \...

### [Easy tool for monitoring water use](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#easy-tool-for-monitoring-water-use .western}

Thursday, April 21, 2022

As the drought persists, water restrictions are again on the horizon. In
an affort to assist in \...

### [Spring anthracnose](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#spring-anthracnose .western}

Thursday, April 14, 2022

So it begins. Poa greens, poor drainage, high soil salts (\> 6 dS/m),
battling rapid blight using \...

### [Threat temperature](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#threat-temperature .western}

Thursday, April 14, 2022

The threat temperature is a simple model that can be used to help
predict when pests might be active\...

### [Video: Early spring anthracnose](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#video-early-spring-anthracnose .western}

Thursday, April 14, 2022

It seems to happen every year - anthracnose shows up in the spring on
poa before environmental condi\...

### [Climate trends for Augusta Georgia](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#climate-trends-for-augusta-georgia .western}

Wednesday, April 06, 2022

April is a pretty good month to host a major tournament in Augusta,
Georgia. In 2022, Wednesday will\...

### [University research location climate appraisals](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#university-research-location-climate-appraisals .western}

Tuesday, April 05, 2022

We have updated the University weather summaries using the new PACE Turf
climate and weather analysi\...

### [Improved weather and planning reports](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#improved-weather-and-planning-reports .western}

Saturday, April 02, 2022

We are always looking for ways to help support turfgrass managers in the
difficult process of planni\...

### [Climate appraisal 2020](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#climate-appraisal-2020 .western}

Friday, April 01, 2022

The Climate Appraisal is the first in a series of new weather-related
reports we are highlighting. T\...

### [Leach before or after?](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#leach-before-or-after .western}

Saturday, March 26, 2022

In a normal rainfall year, we would not post this notice to leach greens
prior to aeration. However,\...

### [Tissue testing discussion](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#tissue-testing-discussion .western}

Friday, March 25, 2022

Micah Woods and Doug Soldat talked about tissue testing in a recent
episode of Micah\'s ATC Offic\...

### [The role of nozzles in pest control success and failure](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#the-role-of-nozzles-in-pest-control-success-and-failure .western}

Wednesday, March 23, 2022

Several studies confirm the huge impact that nozzle type can have on
results. This is particula\...

### [Notes on spray volumes and nozzles](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#notes-on-spray-volumes-and-nozzles .western}

Wednesday, March 23, 2022

For foliar diseases such as dollar spot and anthracnose, the general
consensus is that lower applica\... 

### [Spring is here](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#spring-is-here .western}

Sunday, March 20, 2022

The Northern Hemisphere\'s Spring equinox falls on March 20, marking the
first time this year tha\...

### [Time for fairy ring prevention](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#time-for-fairy-ring-prevention .western}

Sunday, March 20, 2022

If you have had fairy ring problems in the past, you will probably have
them again this year ---\...

### [Video: Using degree days to time poa suppression applications](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#video-using-degree-days-to-time-poa-suppression-applications .western}

Saturday, March 19, 2022

Watch the video, \"Track degree days with PACE Turf Weather Services\"
Growing degree days (GDD) can \...

### [Mix water pH does not change fungicide efficacy](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#mix-water-ph-does-not-change-fungicide-efficacy .western}

Thursday, March 17, 2022

In a Crop Forage & Turfgrass Management article entitled \"The influence
of water pH on efficacy \...

### [Dollar spot survey](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#dollar-spot-survey .western}

Monday, March 14, 2022

If you have not already participated in the survey linked below, please
consider helping t\...

### [Rapid blight shows up in Nevada](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#rapid-blight-shows-up-in-nevada .western}

Sunday, March 13, 2022

Lee Butler, NC State Turfgrass Disease Diagnostic Lab (\@turfbutler on
Twitter), posted a note and ph\...

### [An Arkansas sojourn, and large patch](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#an-arkansas-sojourn-and-large-patch .western}

Sunday, March 13, 2022

A few years ago, we were in Fayetteville, AR last week at the invitation
of the University of Arkans\...

### [Larry Stowell interviewed by Frank Rossi](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#larry-stowell-interviewed-by-frank-rossi .western}

Sunday, March 06, 2022

TurfNet Podcasts include an entertaining and educational series titled
\"Franly Speaking\" hosted\...

### [Growth potential Office Hours with Micah Woods](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#growth-potential-office-hours-with-micah-woods .western}

Tuesday, March 01, 2022

Growth Potential is a widely used model for turfgrass growth based upon
temperature. Many of us take\...

### [Crabgrass prevention timing](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#crabgrass-prevention-timing .western}

Tuesday, March 01, 2022

Time for crabgrass prevention: The threat temperature for application of
pre-emergence herbicides fo\...

### [New uses for growth potential](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#new-uses-for-growth-potential .western}

Wednesday, February 23, 2022

We first developed turf growth potential models in order to forecast
periods of turf stress, time ov\...

### [Growth Potential, without numbers](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#growth-potential-without-numbers .western}

Wednesday, February 09, 2022

Growth Potential (GP) provides an estimate for turf growth based upon
average temperature that is be\...

### [Threat temperatures save time, money and pesticide applications](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#threat-temperatures-save-time-money-and-pesticide-applications .western}

Wednesday, February 02, 2022

Threat temperatures are a tool that we\'ve developed to help you predict
when pests are likely to\...

### [Winter turf management tips](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#winter-turf-management-tips .western}

Wednesday, February 02, 2022

December 21, 2018, was the first day of winter for the Northern
Hemisphere, and of course, also\...

### [Cold weather reminders](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#cold-weather-reminders .western}

Tuesday, February 01, 2022

The cold weeks of February are a slow time for many of us. But if you
are caught at work this week w\...

### [Photo of the week: Cold weather and Trimmit](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#photo-of-the-week-cold-weather-and-trimmit .western}

Tuesday, February 01, 2022

Cold weather stress to bentgrass can make it more sensitive to many
products, including Trimmit (pac\...

### [Crabgrass watch!](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#crabgrass-watch .western}

Friday, January 28, 2022

Bottom line: Base crabgrass preemergent herbicide application on soil
temperature (53-55 F in the su\...

### [NC State Diagnostic Lab Report 2021](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#nc-state-diagnostic-lab-report-2021 .western}

Wednesday, January 26, 2022

Lee Butler, NC State Turf Diagnostic Lab manager, has published the 2021
Turf Diagnostic Lab Review\....

### [Timing poa seedhead control](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#timing-poa-seedhead-control .western}

Tuesday, January 25, 2022

Preventing those lovely seedheads from forming is one of the trickiest
tasks that superintendents fa\...

### [When should soils be sampled?](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#when-should-soils-be-sampled .western}

Sunday, January 23, 2022

The optimum time of year to sample turfgrass soils depends upon the turf
types grown, soil condition\...

### [Sampling compacted soils](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#sampling-compacted-soils .western}

Wednesday, January 19, 2022

Fairway and rough soils are frequently compacted and difficult or
impossible to sample using a stand\...

### [Changes in soil chemical factors following rainfall and calcium chloride applications](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#changes-in-soil-chemical-factors-following-rainfall-and-calcium-chloride-applications .western}

Wednesday, January 19, 2022

As detailed in the Super Journal report, \"Changes in soil chemical
factors following rainfall and ca\...

### [Rainfall impact on sodium leaching at Denver Country Club](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#rainfall-impact-on-sodium-leaching-at-denver-country-club .western}

Wednesday, January 19, 2022

Rainfall plays a critical role in leaching salts and sodium from
turfgrass soils in arid regions of \...

### [Video: Doing your own research with knockout trials](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#video-doing-your-own-research-with-knockout-trials .western}

Friday, January 14, 2022

Ever wondered whether the liquid fertilizer that you\'re paying a
premium for is really working? \...

### [Wisconsin publishes 2021 turf pathology research](https://www.paceturf.org/members) {#wisconsin-publishes-2021-turf-pathology-research .western}

Friday, January 14, 2022

Dr. Paul Koch (\@uwpaul on Twitter), Associate Professor, Department of
Plant Pathology  and Kur\...
